A fontset is a thing that describes which fonts Emacs is supposed to
use for characters in a certain encoding.

Emacs knows what CharSet each character comes from.  You can check it
yourself, too, using `C-u C-x ='.  What Emacs doesn't know is which
font it should use.  This information comes from the fontset currently
active.

Emacs comes with two fontsets:  The default (startup) fontset, and the
standard fontset.  You can add more using `create-fontset-from-fontset-spec':

    (create-fontset-from-fontset-spec
       "-apple-monaco-medium-r-normal--14-*-*-*-*-*-fontset-monaco,
    ascii:-apple-monaco-medium-r-normal--14-140-75-75-m-140-mac-roman,
    latin-iso8859-1:-apple-monaco-medium-r-normal--14-140-75-75-m-140-mac-roman")

See DisplayingNonAsciiCharacters for some debugging info.

== Finegrained Fontset Control ==

If you are content with Emacs' default fonts and just want to change the font for a particular character set; you can use the predifined fontset "fontset-standard" and change only that character set from Lisp:

    ;; Use the predefined fontset "fontset-standard"
    (set-face-font 'default "fontset-standard")

    ;; In "fontset-standard" use "misc fixed" for the charset
    ;; `mule-unicode-0100-24ff'
    (set-fontset-font "fontset-standard"
                      'mule-unicode-0100-24ff
                      "-*-fixed-medium-r-*-*-11-*-*-*-*-*-iso10646-1")

You can have even more finegrained control and make such changes only for a range of characters within an Emacs charset.  The following sets characters from the Unicode code charts "Greek and Coptic" and "Greek extended" to `palatino linotype':

    ;; "Greek extended"  U+1F00 - U+1FEF
    (set-fontset-font "fontset-standard"
                      (cons (decode-char 'ucs #x1f00)
                            (decode-char 'ucs #x1fef))
                      "-*-palatino linotype-*-*-r-*-14-*-*-*-*-*-iso10646-1")

    ;; "Greek and Coptic"  U+0374 - U+03FB
    (set-fontset-font "fontset-standard"
                      (cons (decode-char 'ucs #x0374)
                            (decode-char 'ucs #x03fb))
                      "-*-palatino linotype-*-*-r-*-14-*-*-*-*-*-iso10646-1")

== Choosing a fontset ==

Use `S-down-mouse-1' (shift mouse-1) to see the font and fontset menu.
Emacs starts with the startup fontset.  Switch to the standard fontset
for maximum internationalization and check the HELLO file using `C-h
h'.

If you can't find the fontset menu, here is a little `defun' that puts
it in the top left corner of your selected [[Frame]].

    (defun my-fontset-menu ()
      (interactive)
      (x-popup-menu
      `((0 0) ,(selected-frame)) 
      (append x-fixed-font-alist
        (list (generate-fontset-menu)))))

Emacs 24 has the command mouse-set-font that does the same thing.

== .emacs ==

You can create new fontsets in you .emacs file.  Usually this is not
necessary because you can just switch to the standard fontset.  If you
are using NT Emacs, you can either check the NT Emacs FAQ (see
OnlineResources) or read FontSetsForNTEmacs.  It all comes down to
using `create-fontset-from-fontset-spec'.  The same thing can be
accomplished using .Xdefaults or .Xresources.

'''.Xdefaults or .Xresources'''

Here is an example setting by MichaelLee for .Xdefaults or
.Xresources.  Usually .Xdefaults is used when you start X via xdm or a
similar manager, while .Xresources is used when you start X via the
startx command.

True Type Fonts were used for the various coding systems.  You can use
True Type fonts in Emacs as long as your X server supports True Type
or you are using a working font server.

Note that for this example to work, you actually need the same fonts
that MichaelLee is using.  If you have different fonts, you need to
adapt this example accordingly.

 Emacs.Font: fontset-global
 Emacs.Fontset-0: \
 -monotype-courier-medium-r-normal-*-*-130-*-*-m-*-fontset-global,\
 korean-ksc5601:-hanyang-gothic-medium-r-normal-*-*-150-*-*-*-*-ksc5601*-0,\
 japanese-jisx0208:-ricoh-gothic-medium-r-normal-*-*-150-*-*-*-*-jisx0208*-0,\
 japanese-jisx0212:-ricoh-mincho-medium-r-normal-*-*-150-*-*-*-*-jisx0212*-0,\
 chinese-big5-1:-dynalab-ming-medium-r-normal-*-*-150-*-*-*-*-big5*-0,\
 chinese-big5-2:-dynalab-ming-medium-r-normal-*-*-150-*-*-*-*-big5*-0,\
 chinese-gb2312:-zhuhai-song-medium-r-normal-*-*-150-*-*-*-*-gb2312*-*,\
 thai-tis620:-*-fixed-medium-r-normal-*-*-160-*-*-*-*-tis620.2529-1,\
 vietnamese-viscii-lower:-monotype-courier-medium-r-normal-*-*-130-*-*-*-*-viscii1.1-1,\
 lao:-*-fixed-medium-r-normal-*-*-160-*-*-*-*-mulelao-1,\
 indian-is13194:-*-fixed-medium-r-normal-*-*-160-*-*-*-*-is13194-devanagari,\
 indian-1-column:-*-fixed-medium-r-normal-*-*-160-*-*-*-*-muleindian-1,\
 indian-2-column:-*-fixed-medium-r-normal-*-*-160-*-*-*-*-muleindian-2

For another example, see the ClassicalGreek page.

----
CategoryInternationalization
