== What I use Emacs for ==

I have been using [[Emacsen]] almost exclusively since 1990, [[XEmacs]] since
release, but moved to GnuEmacs about two years ago and regret not having made
the move sooner.  I now download and build GnuEmacs from the CVS repository
weekly.

I use GnuEmacs for pretty much everything from code and document editing,
information organization, Email and most recently as a shell.  My favourite
packages are CcMode, AUCTeX, OrgMode, WanderLust, BbdbMode, [[Eshell]],
[[Magit]], [[EMMS]], [[Icicles]], [[Anything]] and CompletionUI.  For
web-browsing I have changed from [[emacs-w3m]] to the excellent [[Conkeror]]; if
only it was written in Lisp/Scheme rather than JavaScript.  Also in a fit of
Emacsophilia I changed from !IceWM to the StumpWM window manager which is very Emacs like in configuration (in
CommonLisp) and use.

== Emacs Lisp packages in progress ==

: Here are some emacs packages I have been toying with I hope some of this is
useful to someone.

=== Completion-UI extensions ===

: These provide additional source functions I have written (with a great deal of
help from TobyCubitt) for the excellent CompletionUI to interface it to
InteractiveSpell, EmacsLisp, BbdbMode, OrgMode and ProgrammableCompletion for
the [[Eshell]].

* Lisp:completion-ui-more-sources.el -- Completion-UI more completion sources.
* Lisp:thingatpt-ext.el -- Thing at point extensions (required by completion-ui-more-sources.el).

: This is an extension to CompletionUI I am developing to allow convenient
switching between the many completion mechanisms.

* Lisp:completion-selection.el -- Completion mechanism selection for completion-ui.

=== Org-mode extensions ===

: These are two of the OrgMode extension packages I am playing with.

* Lisp:org-pua.el -- Org based pop-up annotation system.
* Lisp:wn-org.el -- An org-mode interface for Word Net.

== Emacs Configuration Files ==

: Here are a few of my Emacs configuration files.  The contents of these files
has been cobbled together from many sources, in particular this Wiki, many
mailing lists, the web and of course by reading the documentation and source
code of GnuEmacs itself and the many add-on packages which are readily
available.

* Lisp:hgw-init-wl.el -- Configuration file for the Wanderlust Email client.

== A Word of Thanks ==

I would like to thank all those who organize and contribute to this excellent
Wiki, which adds greatly to the pleasure of configuring, extending and using
Emacs.

----
CategoryHomepage
